Let's add in this lecture couple of buttons here that will navigate through the posts.
So one button will be the next post and the other will be the previous post.
So let's go to single.php. And let's add another template part after the author info. And this one will
also be in the single folder.
And we call it navigation.
So let's create this file in template-parts/
single/
and navigation.php. So first let's open
PHP tag.
And let's get the next and previous posts.
So to get the previous post we call a function called get_previous_post().
And we will ignore any arguments. And this will return the post object of the previous post or it will
return "false"
if we are in the first post. And same for next, it's called get_next_post() and will return the
post object.
Or if you are in the last post it will just return "false".
So let's display these
post now. We can use the NAV HTML tag
for that. And give it a class "c-post-
"c-post-navigation" and a "role" of "navigation".
But notice we only need to display this navigation only if we have either a previous or a next post.
If you don't have any of these we don't need to display this navigation section here. So let's add another if condition.
"if ($previous || $next)"
we will display this section.
Also remember in the author we had this H2 tag for screen readers. Let's do the same thing here. Let's copy it.
And this will be maybe "Post Navigation".
And now let's finally display the links. So I have a class called
"c-post-navigation
"c-post-navigation__links". And inside of this DIV we'll output the previous and next posts.
So let's start by the previous. So we need to check first
if we have a previous post. And if so let's output a DIV
with a class
"c-post-
"c-post-navigation__post" and
"c-post-navigation__post" with a modifier of previous or "--prev".
And then we'll have an A tag with a class of "c-post-navigation__link" and
with an href.
And this will point to the URL for the previous post.
So how to get that?
Open a PHP and call the_permalink() for the previous link so I need the ID of the previous.
So let's call ID of previous. Inside this A tag we'll put the title and the thumbnail of the previous
post.
Now we have + here. So let's add first the thumbnail.
So let's open PHP and let's write an if condition check that this post has a thumbnail. So we can call
has_post_thumbnail() and give it the ID and close the if condition. And if it has a post thumbnail let's display
it. So DIV with a class "c-post-navigation__thumbnail".
And then PHP tags.
And then let's "echo get_the_post_thumbnail()". So we need the ID which is one.
And we need a "size". So we need the thumbnail size which is a square of 150 X150 pixels. And we don't need
any attributes.
So now we have the thumbnail.
Let's now display the title and the other stuff.
So I'm just gonna copy this class name and let's create a new DIV with
class "c-post-navigation__content".
And here we have a SPAN with a class
"c-post
"c-post-navigation__title".
And inside of it we'll echo the title.
So PHP tags and "echo esc_html( get_the_title() )". But this tme we need to get the
title of the previous post.
So.
So before the title we just need to display some text that indicates that this is the previous
post, right?
Let's add another SPAN.
And instead of "title" this will be "subtitle".
And let's open PHP and echo some escaped and translated string.
So esc_html_e().
And I'll just say "Previous
Post"
and "_themename". So that was a lot of typing.
Let's see now. As you can see we have "Previous Post" and the title. And this post probably doesn't have
thumbnail.
So let's go to our post.
Let's go to this post and the previous post we have a thumbnail now.
So I think that's it. We will just have to copy this if condition and just change any "previous"  with "next". So let's do
this
real quick here.
Let's Cmd+D and select all the "prev".
And instead let's type next. And here we have to "Next Post".
Now I think this will do it.
So let's see. And great, we now have the "Next Post" and the "Previous Post".
So I know that was a bit boring but I just wanted to show you how to do it.
So in the next lecture let's go through.
Remember the dummy posts that we imported.
Let's now go through each one of them and see if they are displayed completely.
And if they're not displayed correctly let's see what we can do in order to fix it.
So see you in the next lecture.